Create bounty program (#3396)
graphql-dotnet/graphql-dotnet: BOUNTY.md

# GraphQL.NET Bounty Program

The GraphQL.NET team has worked to create a program where community developers can work on specific new features
of GraphQL.NET for compensation. These features are determined by GraphQL.NET maintainers to have the
potential for high-impact improvement to the product. Design proposals that would fulfill a bounty may
be made either by individuals or teams of developers, but the final payout will be made to only one stakeholder.

## Bounty Process Flowchart

1. The GraphQL.NET team publishes a Request For Proposals (RFP) describing a feature that the team has decided

>    should be prioritized, or a bug that is in need of being researched and fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   should be prioritized, or a bug that is in need of being researched and fixed. These publications take place in the form of GitHub issues.
```

>     * Initial Bounty Status set to **Accepting Proposals**

Reviewer: Do you mean that all these statuses need to be formalized as labels?

Author: I was going to create a few badges, yes, that correspond to these statuses.

> 2. Developers write proposals for how they would implement the feature or fix the bug described in the RFP.

Reviewer: What to do with "instant" PRs without even writing proposal about implementation or anything?

Author: The bounty program isn't designed for such a purpose.  We should be collaborating periodically on what we should apply a bounty to, and then create an issue for the few tasks and mark them as having a bounty.

Reviewer: Then it is better to explicitly say that such PRs do not fall into the program.

3. The GraphQL.NET team works with developers to clarify and refine their proposals.
4. A proposal is accepted. The developer(s) responsible for the proposal work to implement the feature or
   bug fix according to their proposal.

>     * Bounty status changed to **In Progress**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Bounty status of issue changed to **In Progress**
```

and in other places

5. Pull requests are submitted to implement the proposal by the developers.
    * Bounty status changed to **Under Review**
6. Pull requests are reviewed by project maintainers, and the pull request developers make any changes to the
   pull requests accordingly.

> 7. Pull requests are merged into the master or develop branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Pull requests are merged into the `master` or `develop` branch.
```

8. Developer(s) submit invoice to the [GraphQL.NET Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net)
   for bounty amount, confirmed by GraphQL.NET team members.
    * Bounty status changed to **Claimed**

> 9. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds.
    * Bounty status of issue changed to **Paid**
```
?

Reviewer: Do we need a confirmation about payment from the PR author?

Author: Not sure exactly what you mean.  I'm sure us maintainers will handle the payment or the PR author will inform us if we forget!  The badge/label is really so we can indicate the number of paid bounties within the readme easily.

Reviewer: I mean the fact of transferring money to the author's account.

Author: OpenCollective is responsible for the actual payment.  joemcbride just needs to approve the invoice.  There's nothing additional that we need to write here.  I'm sure if the author has an issue they will bring it up.

Reviewer: OK. I expected such an answer and only wanted to clarify.

> 8. Pull requests are merged into the master or develop branch.
> 9. Developer(s) submit invoice to the [GraphQL.NET Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net)
>    for bounty amount, confirmed by GraphQL.NET team members.
>     * Bounty status changed to **Claimed**
> 10. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Pull requests are merged into the master or develop branch.
8. Developer(s) submit invoice to the [GraphQL.NET Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net)
   for bounty amount, confirmed by GraphQL.NET team members.
    * Bounty status changed to **Claimed**
9. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds.
```

> ## How to Claim a Bounty

Reviewer: I do not understand how this section differs from `# Bounty Process Flowchart`. Yes, they differ of course, but both describe about the same.

Author: They are not much different.  Just written from different points of view.  Seemed fine to me, since we don't have much else to say.

Reviewer: I am inclined to agree. Over time, we may find perfect formulations and descriptions.

We've created a process to ensure multiple contributors aren’t competing on the same project, and to make sure
work is properly merged into GraphQL.NET once completed.

1. Read the Request For Proposal document completely.
2. If you want to move forward, submit an proposal to the GraphQL.NET team on your suggested implementation by
   replying to the RFP posting. Be sure to include as many details as requested by the spec, and be sure to address
   each of the completion criteria. For proposals that include UI changes, mockups are strongly encouraged.
3. Work with the GraphQL.NET team to finalize plans for the best implementation. Proposals will be judged on their
   maintainability, design quality, and adherence to spec. Note that other developers may submit competing proposals
   at this time as well.
4. If your proposal is accepted, you may begin code implementation that adheres to your proposal.
5. Submit code as a draft pull request in the appropriate repository so GraphQL.NET community leaders can track progress.

> 6. Once code is complete, remove draft status and notify GraphQL.NET maintainers.

Reviewer: _notify_ should be clarified

Author: I'm not sure how.  They just post in the PR just like all other communication.  Seems pretty obvious to me.

Want to add something more specifically like "request PR review from a maintainer"?

Reviewer: Yes. Notify sounds not formal.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Once code is complete, remove draft status and request a review from the GraphQL.NET maintainers.
```

7. Update code with feedback from core GraphQL.NET contributors as needed.
8. Wait for your code to be merged into the `master` or `develop` branch.

> 9. [Submit an expense through Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net/expenses/new) for the amount of the bounty.

Reviewer: > for the amount of the bounty

I think there should be section describing this term. Where to find that amount? Is that amount constant or may be changed over time? Or even may be withdrawn?

Author: The bounty amount will be described in the issue and depend on the bounty.

> 9. [Submit an expense through Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net/expenses/new) for the amount of the bounty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. [Submit an expense through Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net/expenses/new) for the amount of the bounty. The bounty amount will be described in the issue and depend on the bounty.
```

## Collaboration with GraphQL.NET team

Collaboration with the GraphQL.NET team is crucial to having your code pulled into GraphQL.NET. During the proposal process,
clarify any questions you or your team may have as early as possible. During development, use the pull request commenting
feature.

## Deadlines

If your team does not show code commits or interaction for two weeks at a time as part of an accepted feature bounty, then

> the bounty will be released for another team to work on. If the task remains in the **Accepting Proposals** state, and the

Reviewer: > will be released for another team to work on

So, `In Progress` -> `Accepting Proposals` transition here? If so that should be mentioned in Bounty Process Flowchart section, right?

> the bounty will be released for another team to work on. If the task remains in the **Accepting Proposals** state, and the

Reviewer: task -> issue ?

Author: yes

Reviewer: 👍  Let's use consistent naming across document.

team can demonstrate work on the feature, they can reclaim the task.

> If you no longer wish to work on a project that has been granted to you, please notify the GraphQL.NET team to reset the

Reviewer: I see different terms : task (issue) vs project. Do you mean GitHub's projects feature here?

Reviewer: Maybe we can use it https://docs.github.com/en/issues/planning-and-tracking-with-projects/learning-about-projects/about-projects as a flow for bounty issue?

Author: > I see different terms : task (issue) vs project. Do you mean GitHub's projects feature here?

No issue is what I meant.

> If you no longer wish to work on a project that has been granted to you, please notify the GraphQL.NET team to reset the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you no longer wish to work on an issue that has been granted to you, please notify the GraphQL.NET team to reset the
```

> bounty as **Accepting Proposals**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bounty status as **Accepting Proposals**.
```

# GraphQL.NET Bounty Program

The GraphQL.NET team has worked to create a program where community developers can work on specific new features
of GraphQL.NET for compensation ("projects"). These projects are determined by GraphQL.NET maintainers to have the
potential for high-impact improvement to the product. Design proposals that would fulfill a bounty may
be made either by individuals or teams of developers, but the final payout will be made to only one stakeholder.

> Routine bug fixes and similar pull requests do not fall into this program at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routine bug fixes and similar pull requests like fixing typos or outdated pieces of documentation do not fall into this program at this time.
```

Though I believe that fixing [confirmed bugs](https://github.com/graphql-dotnet/graphql-dotnet/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abug) should be paid as well.

Author: It's not a bad idea.  We would need to determine a structure for how this works in practice.  Having a standing price for bug fixes may be to little or too much depending on the issue.

I do like that it would encourage users of the library to fix bugs themselves rather than waiting for us to do so.

However, we would need to address how this works for us maintainers.  While I think the bounty program as written works with us maintainers (as we all agree on the bounties beforehand), bugs that you and I work on are usually spur-of-the-moment issues.  Sometimes it's just one line of code.  Sometimes it's a complex problem.  Do we just set a price and go with it per-bug?  What if the bug has multiple facets that need to be addressed?

Another option is that bug fixes are available for contributors but not maintainers.

I have not thought about it much, but I'd say in order to encourage community bug fixes, I would suggest a higher bounty price for community fixes, versus a lower price for us maintainers.  It is also easier for us to fix bugs than them, as we have greater knowledge of the codebase, so from one perspective, it's fair.

Author: If we do add a 'bug bounty', we should state that fixes must include a test for the bug.

Reviewer: > However, we would need to address how this works for us maintainers. 

For me it does not work at all :) ... _You are a resident of any countries under U.S. sanctions_ ...

> Another option is that bug fix bounties are available for contributors but not maintainers.

I'm fine with this option.

> If we do add a 'bug bounty', we should state that fixes must include a test for the bug.

Good. Agree.

Author: #3430

## Bounty Process Flowchart

1. The GraphQL.NET team publishes a Request For Proposals (RFP) describing a feature that the team has decided
   should be prioritized, or a bug that is in need of being researched and fixed (a "project"). This project
   will be posted as a GitHub issue and will indicate the amount of the bounty in US dollars (USD).
     * The GitHub issue is labeled with **`bounty`**.
2. Developers write proposals for how they would implement the feature or fix the bug described in the RFP.
3. The GraphQL.NET team works with developers to clarify and refine their proposals.
4. A proposal is accepted. The developer(s) responsible for the proposal work to implement the feature or
   bug fix according to their proposal.
    * The GitHub issue is also labeled with **`in progress`**.
5. Pull requests are submitted to implement the proposal by the developer(s).
    * The GitHub pull request is linked to the issue.
6. Pull requests are reviewed by project maintainers, and the pull request developers make any changes to the
   pull requests accordingly.

> 7. Pull requests are merged into the `master` or `develop` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Pull requests are merged into the `master` or `develop` branch. Also, if necessary, it can be branches for old versions.
```

Author: ```suggestion
7. Pull requests are merged into the appropriate branch (typically `master` or `develop`).
```

Author: Please see alternate language suggested.

Reviewer: 👍 good

8. Developer(s) submit invoice to the [GraphQL.NET Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/graphql-net)
   for bounty amount, confirmed by GraphQL.NET team members.

> 9. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds, i.e. Open Collective is
   responsible for the actual payment.
```

Author: ```suggestion
9. Payment disbursed to developer(s) by the Open Source Collective from GraphQL.NET funds;
   i.e. Open Collective is responsible for the actual payment.
```

>     * The GitHub issue is labeled with **`bounty-paid`** and the aforementioned labels are removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The GitHub issue is labeled with **`bounty-paid`** and the aforementioned **`bounty`** and **`in progress`** labels are removed.
```

## How to Claim a Bounty

We've created a process to ensure multiple contributors aren’t competing on the same project, and to make sure
work is properly merged into GraphQL.NET once completed.

1. Read the GitHub issue containing the project's Request For Proposals completely.
2. If you want to move forward, submit an proposal to the GraphQL.NET team on your suggested implementation by
   replying to the issue. Be sure to include as many details as requested by the spec, and be sure to address
   each of the completion criteria. For proposals that include UI changes, mockups are strongly encouraged.
3. Work with the GraphQL.NET team to finalize plans for the best implementation. Proposals will be judged on their
   maintainability, design quality, and adherence to spec. Note that other developers may submit competing proposals
   at this time as well.

> 4. If your proposal is accepted, you may begin code implementation that adheres to your proposal.

Reviewer: >  may submit competing proposals at this time as well.
> If your proposal is accepted

So.. can other competing proposals arise after this one was marked as accepted (in progress)?

Author: The deadline written in the bounty program should help a lot preventing these situations.

Reviewer: "do what we want" maybe obvious for us but not so obvious for someone who try to contribute. Here my only intent is to make things as clear as possible. Your explanation is good and I would like to move these words into document (even in the form of non-normative notice). If you do not want, then okay.

Author: Hmm..  I don't think we should say anything here.  We can write a separate document for internal procedures that we can use as guidelines in these scenarios, if the need arises.  This separate document should only be visible to maintainers.

based on two main criteria:

* How complex is the feature/bugfix?
    * How long do we expect it may take to complete?
    * How much specialized knowledge do we expect it will require to implement?
* How high of a demand is there for this feature/bugfix?
    * How many people do we expect this to impact?
    * How frequently are we asked about this feature or bug?
    * How urgently does this need to be implemented?

In general, issues that are higher in complexity and higher in demand are given greater bounties.

## Legal

You ARE eligible to participate in the Program if you meet all of the following criteria:

* You are 14 years of age or older. If you are at least 14 years old but are considered a minor in your place of residence,
  you must obtain your parent's or legal guardian's permission prior to participating in this Program; and

* You are either an individual researcher participating in your own individual capacity, or you work for an organization
  that permits you to participate. You are responsible for reviewing your employer's rules for participating in this Program.

You ARE NOT eligible to participate in the Program if you meet any of the following criteria:

> * You are a resident of any countries under U.S. sanctions (see link for current sanctions list posted by the United States

Reviewer: What if someone wants to post a PR closing RFP and at the same time he is under sanctions? Dev **may** do it without claims to participate into program. Right? So what about other competing proposals/PRs? Will all proposals be considered on equal terms, regardless of whether a dev falls under conditions of the Program or not?

Author: Sure.  I mean, it's pretty explicit that the entire bounty program is at the whims of the maintainers, and we can do whatever we want.  Honestly, we don't have enough contributors to worry about it, and most of the "flowchart" is just standard practice of any outstanding issue.  I often outline a PR before posting it when I believe you may have a concern with it, or when I am looking for advice before spending time on the implementation.  Or I may post a PR, as in #3414 and then subject to discussion rewrite it like #3417 .  So here if someone says they want to work on a issue and forgo the bounty, sure we just assign it like any other.  They finish the work and we skip the payment step.  I don't think we need to write a special paragraph for this; it's common sense and we just handle the scenario if and when it arises.

Note: that's a copy and paste from Microsoft.  Probably some legal reason why it's required, just like the age thing -- and since joemcbride is located in the US and will be approving the bounties, it seemed an appropriate safeguard for his sake.  It's not like we are going to be reviewing contributor's eligibility claims.

Reviewer: ok

clarify any questions you or your team may have as early as possible. During development, use the pull request commenting
feature.

## Deadlines

If your team does not show code commits or interaction for two weeks at a time as part of an **`in progress`** bounty, then
the bounty will be released for another team to work on. If the team can demonstrate work on the project, they can reclaim
the bounty.

If you no longer wish to work on a bounty that has been granted to you, please notify the GraphQL.NET team.

## Bounty Valuation

The GraphQL.NET team currently uses a simple rubric to determine how to price a bounty. Generally speaking, RFPs are evaluated
based on two main criteria:

* How complex is the feature/bugfix?
    * How long do we expect it may take to complete?
    * How much specialized knowledge do we expect it will require to implement?
* How high of a demand is there for this feature/bugfix?
    * How many people do we expect this to impact?
    * How frequently are we asked about this feature or bug?
    * How urgently does this need to be implemented?

In general, issues that are higher in complexity and higher in demand are given greater bounties.

> ## Legal

Author: @joemcbride Along with the rest of this document, please review this 'Legal' section when you have a minute.

These terms were paraphrased from MS's bounty program here:
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/msrc/bounty-terms?rtc=1

I selected restrictions from Microsoft's text based on these basis:
1. Age -- due to [COPPA](https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/rules/childrens-online-privacy-protection-rule-coppa)
2. Individual researcher, etc -- for copyright
3. Resident of countries with US sanctions -- could be a legal requirement
4. MIT license requirements -- for copyright
5. Similarity waiver -- for copyright
6. No guaranteed compensation -- so we can revoke a bounty if needed
7. Submission is own work -- for copyright

I think most of these make sense, but the one regarding US sanctions we may not need.  Specifically, even if there is a US law that applies (which there very likely may not be), technically it is Open Collective that has both received donations and is paying the bounties.  You're simply approving the payment.  (Correct??)  I'd recommend removing that restriction and let Open Collective deal with any issues that may arise.  I really don't want to exclude anyone from this program, and specifically @sungam3r currently falls into this category.

We could also argue that the age restriction falls in the same category.  But as children's privacy is a hot button in almost every country, I'd leave it in there.  I'm sure any 14yo contributors can get their parent to apply for the bounty if need be!

Note that Microsoft has additional restrictions for government employees and Microsoft employees that I didn't feel were applicable here.

Final note: the "submission is own work" restriction could be an issue if someone continues another person's work.  But at the same time, if that was the case, should they be paid a bounty?  I guess I'd just leave it in there for now, and if an issue arises, we can handle it at that time.

Thanks in advance!

Reviewer 2: > I think most of these make sense, but the one regarding US sanctions we may not need. Specifically, even if there is a US law that applies (which there very likely may not be), technically it is Open Collective that has both received donations and is paying the bounties. You're simply approving the payment. (Correct??) I'd recommend removing that restriction and let Open Collective deal with any issues that may arise. I really don't want to exclude anyone from this program, and specifically @sungam3r currently falls into this category.

I agree with this sentiment, that this should be handled at the Open Collective level. Since I'm no lawyer and I'm sure those restrictions change and there are probably a lot of nuances. It would be difficult for the maintainers to try to make that determination.

Author: Done.

You ARE eligible to participate in the Program if you meet all of the following criteria:

* You are 14 years of age or older. If you are at least 14 years old but are considered a minor in your place of residence,
  you must obtain your parent's or legal guardian's permission prior to participating in this Program; and

* You are either an individual researcher participating in your own individual capacity, or you work for an organization
  that permits you to participate. You are responsible for reviewing your employer's rules for participating in this Program.

You ARE NOT eligible to participate in the Program if you meet any of the following criteria:

> * You are a resident of any countries under U.S. sanctions (see link for current sanctions list posted by the United States
>   Treasury Department) or any other country that does not allow participation in this type of program; or
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
